# NHANES-Capstone-Research
**Description:** Visualization of physical activity trends &amp; regression analysis on health indicators from the national health &amp; nutritional examination surveys

**Summary:** For my UC Berkeley master’s capstone project, I used R programming language to conduct data analysis on healthcare data, with guidance from one of my professors who specializes in data-driven decision making in health systems and physical infrastructure. The dataset I used came from NHANES, which stands for “national health & nutritional examination surveys.” In these surveys conducted by the CDC, about 5000 people of all ages are interviewed and participate in a health examination. The surveys include the following segments: demographics, dietary, examination, laboratory, and questionnaire, which records data such as a person’s height, weight, diet, physical activity levels, and many other health indicators with the objective of monitoring trends in lifestyle and their effects on one’s health. The data I used came from the 2013-2014 cycle and focused on the demographics, examination, and laboratory segments.

Through this project, I visualized and analyzed trends in physical activity at the hour, day, and week levels, compared the breakdown of physical activity levels between different age groups, and through linear regression, correlated how trends in physical activity and other demographics affect the following three health indicators: waist circumference, BMI, and total cholesterol. Physical activity data was given in units “MIMS”, which is an open-source metric developed by researchers and so I used conversion rates to convert these measurements into the following activity levels: sleep, sedentary, low physical activity, moderate physical activity, and vigorous physical activity.

I began my analysis by filtering and joining various datasets to get a fuller picture for each participant, who was identified by a unique ID called “SEQN”. To summarize my findings, I saw that on average, activity levels were higher on weekdays than weekends and tended to decrease as age increased, particularly with people aged 75+ especially having lower levels. When conducting linear regression, the variables that were statistically significant in determining an individual's waist circumference and BMI included age, height, and the amount of vigorous physical activity. On the other hand, being female seemed to be the only statistically significant variable leading to increased cholesterol levels especially for people aged 50+. 
               
Overall, my results stressed the importance of adding physical activity into our daily routines to achieve healthier body measurements especially on the weekends when these levels are lower than usual. Furthermore, from the age-based activity level analysis, early riser routines that incorporate more activity earlier into the day may lead to better health outcomes. I then presented my findings to a panel of professors at UC Berkeley, and answered any questions they had regarding my research. 
